.mb0
.mt0
.po4
     To investigate sport fish preference for and association with 

mussel beds, fish populations over mussel beds will be assessed and 

compared with populations in similar, nearby control areas lacking 

mussels.  Fish collections will be made using floating trammel nets or 

electrofishing.  Sampling will be seasonal, with additional effort in 

spring to determine use during spawning.  Both diurnal and nocturnal 

collections would be used in all seasons.  

     The study will be conducted on the lower Illinois River where 

hard substrates are generally lacking and the presence of mussel beds 

provides a distinctive habitat disparate from the predominate mud and 

sand bottom.  

     To select appropriate mussel bed sites and control sites, we will 

(1) review literature on mussel beds in the lower Illinois River, (2) 

consult with DOC biologists and commercial shellers and fishermen, (3) 

sample with a brail bar, and (4) sample using surface-supplied diving 

techniques.  Factors considered during site selection include water 

depth, current velocity, substrate, navigation traffic levels, and 

inputs (tributaries, sewage treatment plants, etc.).  Field work to 

identify and document 3-5 relatively dense mussel beds and associated 

control sites should begin in spring 1987.

     We anticipate the first fish collections will be in June 1987.  

Data generated during initial collections will be used in consultation 

with a biometrician to determine sample size necessary to reveal 

statistically significant differences between in fish populations 

should they exist.  

     Because collection sites will not have identical sites, 

controlled laboratory experiments will be used to augment this 

investigation.  A fish raceway will be set up with a silt/sand 

substrate similar to that predominate in the lower Illinois River.  A 

mussel population will be established and maintained on one side of 

the raceway.  Using known mussel glochidia-fish host associations, we 

will select 3-5 species of sport fishes likely to demonstrate a 

preference for mussel beds.  Habitat preference of these fish will be 

determined by electronically monitoring relative fish position in the 

raceway.  Various seasons of the year should be simulated by 

controlling environmental conditions (photoperiod, water temperature, 

etc.) giving insight into factors responsible for any preference.
