Fisher, J.B., and M.J.S. Tevesz.  1976.  Distribution and
     population density of Elliptio complanata in Lake
     Pocotopaug, Connecticut.
Ghent, A.W., R. Singer, and L. Johnson-Singer.  1978.  Depth
     distributions determined with SCUBA and associated studies
     of the freshwater unionid clams Elliptio complanata and
     Anodonta grandis in Lake Bernard, Ontario.
Hinch, S.G., and L.A. Stephenson.  1987.  Size- and age-specific
     patterns of trace metal concentrations in freshwater clams
     from an acid-sensitive and circumneutral lake.
Hobden, D.J.  1970.  Aspects of iron metabolism in a fresh-water
     mussel.
Huehner, M.K.  1987.  Field and laboratory determination of
     substrate preferences of unionid mussels.
Imlay, M.J.  1968.  Environmental factors in activity rhythms of
     the freshwater clam Elliptio complanatus catawbensis (Lea).
Kat, P.W.  1982.  Effects of population density on growth and
     migration of Elliptio Complanata (Bivalvia: Unionidae).
Kauss, P.B., and Y.S. Hamdy.  1985.  Biological monitoring of
     organochlorine contaminants in the St. Clair and Detroit
     rivers using introduced clams, Elliptio complantus.
Matteson, M.R.  1948.  Life history of Elliptio complanetus
     (Dillwyin, 1817).
Paterson, C.G.  1983.  Effects of aggregation on the respiration
     rate of the freshwater bivalve Elliptio complanata.
Paterson, C.G.  1984.  A technique for determining apparent
     selective filtration in the freshwater bivalve, Elliptio
     complanata (Lightfoot).
Paterson, C.G.  1985 [recd. 1986].  Biomass and production of the
     Unionid, Elliptio complanata in an old reservoir in New
     Brunswick, Canada.
Patterson, C.G.  1986.  Particle size selectivity in the
     freshwater bivalve Elliptio complanata.
Tessier, A., P.G.C. Campbell, J.C. Auclair, and M. Bisson.  1984.
     Relationships between the partitioning of trace metals in
     sediments and their accumulation in the tissues of the
     freshwater molluscs, Elliptio complanata in a mining area.
